# Avani Jadav

## Assignment 1

Hello I am Avanikaben Jadav, but please call me Avani ...I have completed my Associates Degree in Elecronics Engineering fromTaylor Business Institute , Chicago. I have studied some basics of programming in my early career as well. I have always like to solve the puzzels and thats why i choose Mathematics as my major in graduation back in my country. Now I want to learn the computer since I believed that Computer language is also like a math puzzel but the only difference is you have to keep updating your equations every day as technology changes so rapidly. I have already knowledge about C++ and java so i want to chose something differnet. Since Python is basic langauge, i would liketo start with base and hence i have choosen the Python for my course.

## Assignment 2

Integrated Development Environment provides different tools to make the program easy to write and run. It includes text editor,  compiler, output viewer, linker, loader. This week I have tried online IDE Repl.it which is free also. This IDE supports many languages including Python, Java, C#, Ruby, HTML, CSS and many more. In IDE we can see coding is different in each language just to print "Hello world" each language has a series of codes. I want to be a web developer in java in this IDE can help me to understand and write a small program in java.

## Assignment 3
In the previous chapter, we have learned some basics rules and fundamentals about programming. In this chapter, we have started doing programming and learning about the identifier. The identifier is a name, which used in variable declaration. Variables are the identifier, that change the values during program execution and store the value also. Data type is the type of value which variable can hold. Some fundamental data types are integer, float, string and boolean. Integer can hold only whole numbers and float can hold decimal though this data type varies over the language for example java script does not have integer it always store every number of value in float. We have also learned about some basic mathematical operators like addition, subtraction, multiplication , division and mod.

## Assignment 4
The vast portion of this chapter describes about the different types of data types. Mathematical precedence follows in computer equations as well.  Typecasting is a feature to help convert data types into one another. There are two types of conversion, one is explicit and another is implicit. Implicit conversion can be done internally by the compiler, at the time of execution. To do explicit conversion we need to apply a casting function. There are three types of operation depending on number of operands, unary needs one operand, binary operations need two operands, most operations are binary. 

## Assignment 5
I have learned about the function in this chapter. Functions are the group of code that needs to execute in the program multiple times. This feature gives us the ability to use the same code at multiple places and reusability of executable code. In every programming, language function can be called in many ways such as sub-routine, macro, procedure, etc. Programming language C is function-based language, which means we can not run any C program without function. To avoid writing the same code at multiple places we use the function, this way we also save the memory and time as well. Function code is written once in memory and at the time of calling function, the compiler will move its control there and retrieve the answer. Main objects of function is 1) defining function (in this we decide the return type, logic, and parameters of function. 2) Calling function (where to use the function in main body of program) 3) declare a function (this is an optional phase, we declare function for compiler to know so it does not give any error).

## Assignment 6
The function is statement block with a specific task and it's used in programming to remove redundancy in programming. An important part of the function is the calling parameter. The program can call parameters two different ways 1) call by reference and 2) call by value. In the first method when a function is called from main it will send the memory reference, it will work with actual variables. In this method, the function can modify actual variables main. In the second method when function called from main it will copy the actual variable to the function parameter and after complete the task it will return the value. In this method, the function can not modify the actual variables of the main. Another interesting fact that we learn in this chapter is the scope of the variable. Every variable is only accessible in the block where it is declared, it can not be available or modify by outside that block.

## Assignment 7
In this chapter, we have learned about the control statements. It is very difficult to write code without any kind of control over it we can not jump the code or it is hard when we need to do some task multiple times with the same variables or different variables. To make coding easy we have control statements. In this chapter we have learned three different types of control statements 1)Sequence: which is regular coding with multiple lines. 2)choice: In this, we have multiple choice and according to this choice we can perform the desired task or run code. Some programming language does not support choice 3) Iteration: When we need to run some code or task multiple times we can put those code in iteration block, which executes that code any number of times. I have also learned about the Branching, in this section, we jump from one block to another according to our condition. Another important concept that this chapter described is the conditional operator and logical operator. Conditional operators can be used in the if statement to run code based on some conditions.

## Assignment 8
Iteration allows the programmer to repeat some actions multiple times based on the condition. We have mainly two types of loops pre-test loops and post-test loops. In pre-test loops condition will execute first and if the condition is true then it will execute the block of code else it will exit from the loop. We have two pre-test loops, while and for loops. To maintain any loops we need four main steps,1) Initializing flag 2) Test Expression 3) Actions 4) Increment/decrement flag. If the program fails to manage the flag or condition it can enter into an infinite loop. In pre-test loop, there is a chance that our code in the block may or may not execute.

## Assignment 9
Do...While it is a post-test loop, which means it executes condition after the block of code execute. This loop executes at least once, does not matter condition is true or false. Do while loop has three main parts. 1)Action - it is a block of code that needs to execute. 2) Update flag - this can be increment or decrement of the flag. Flag avoids loop to enter in an infinite loop. 3) Condition - it will decide when to terminate the loop. In python, we used a break statement to terminate the loop.  We will insert a condition in if and its condition is true it will continue to execute the loop, but its condition is a false program that will exit the loop. Do while can be said as do action until the expression is true.

## Assignment 10
The nested structure allows putting one structure into another one. In this section, we have learned nested loops, where we placed one loop into another one. For example, We want to put input validation on user input and once correct input taken from users wants to perform some more operation on input such as printing multiple times or, multiplication table. This section also talked about some branching statements where it explains the uses of goto, break, continue and exit. Continue can be used to avoid some statement of a block without exiting the loop. Goto statement allows us to create the label, control can jump to the label according to our condition. The break will exit the loop. Exit statement can be used to terminate the whole program. In some situations when a user wants to get some information from the server and perform some tasks on that information, but if the server is busy we want to exit from the program. We can use exit statement in such a situation to exit from the program. 
